---
id: ch2-birth
title: "Birth"
chapter: 2
pages: 18-24
extracted: 2026-01-18T15:00:31.851917
---

# Birth

R

## character generation

A weathered-faced shaman of the tribal Great Alts. A mysterious mail-clad knight of Kanday. A noble-born Shenti mage from the learned Peleahn chantry of Zerula. HârnMaster promotes expression of a wide variety of characters from throughout all Venarive, and beyond. To this end, by design, character generation takes some time to complete. Players are encouraged to embrace its detail and depth as a creative way to establish the first important element of their character's story-the past.

The chapter is divided into three broad sections, each answering important questions about player characters.

Birth : how has time and place of birth shaped their development?

Family : in what ways did parents and clan membership influence their backstory?

Persona : to what extent did talent, psychology, and training inspire their search for adventure?

While working through the generation steps, players should keep in mind the following points about dice roll randomness and character power.

## Birth

The three phases of character generation-Birth, Family, and Persona-broadly follow a 'lifepath' approach: players generate the details of their characters in roughly the same sequence as their past unfolded, from birth to recent occupational experiences. These fourteen steps are listed on the following page, along with a diagram of the character sheet showing where players record the information generated by each step.

The initial five steps of character generation determine a character's native folk, age, and place of birth. Players may select their character's gender at any point.

## Randomness

Character generation transpires through both random and selected outcomes. In large part, players should consider the random elements as sources of unexpected value-the dice results can foster intriguing narratives. On the other hand, some results might undermine a player's vision or interest. In the end, the process should result in characters stimulating to portray, so if a result is not desirable, regenerate or select an outcome that is.

## Power

By the end of generation and the start of the campaign, player characters will most likely be at a higher level of competency within the milieu of Kethira than where PCs begin relatively in the worlds of many other games. While it is very possible to generate a novice, the assumption here is that characters usually begin near or at their prime. But this is a relative power, as the world of Kethira is still a dangerous place and the rules reflect it. A PC's life, while immediately consequential, can still be precarious.

## nolóra: character

Nolora is a member of the Emhle folk of the Jerinalian Mountains of Emelrene. She serves as an example throughout Chapter 2: Character , as denoted by the green text and two symbols shown above. Players may follow her generation to see how the process can produce a simple yet evocative backstory.

## quickstart adventure

Nolora might be recognised as one of the PCs from the On The Silver Way Quickstart . While she is native to Emelrene, this inaugural adventure takes her deep into the mountains of Hârn, the Misty Isle of legend.

## the bélveron campaign

A later publication describes the Belveron Campaign, providing more detail about Nolora's homeland. In addition to a gazetteer and extensive adventure, it includes special amendments to character generation that reflect the unique cultural qualities of the Jerinala Mountains of eastern Emelrene.

<!-- image -->

]

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

3

5

## generation steps

Follow	these	fourteen	steps	to	complete	character	generation.	recording	each	step's	information	in	the	indicated	spaces	on	the	character	sheet.

## birth

<!-- image -->

## family

<!-- image -->

## persona

<!-- image -->

1

folk

page 20

2

age

page 21

3

sunsign

page 22

4

sunsign traits

page 23

5

birthplace

page 24

- 6 parent social class

page 26

- 7 parent occupation

page 26

- 8 background

page 33

9

estrangement

page 34

10

characteristics

page 38

11

occupation

page 41

12

skills

page 45

13

standing

page 51

14

the mysteries

page 53

<!-- image -->

## birth

name folk

age group birthdate

sunsign birthplace

## family

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

society

class

occupation

background

estrangement

pantheon

5

6

7

9

8

5

skills

<!-- image -->

SOCIAL

[

Charm

Command

Discourse

Guile

Intrigue

Singing  [

Theatrics

NATURE

Survival

]

<!-- image -->

cml·emp wil·elo

rea·elo emp·cre

emp·rea voi·cre

cre·elo elo·rea

·

·

·

·

·

]

<!-- image -->

wil·rea

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

sb | ml sb | ml

standing occupation

home wealth

<!-- image -->

## traits

sunsign morality

psyche fate

<!-- image -->

blessing doctrine

LORE

<!-- image -->

Cookery

Folklore

Physician

Ritual,

CRAFT

Drawing

## attributes

PHYSICAL

strength endurance

dexterity agility

perception comeliness

MENTAL

aura will

reasoning creativity

empathy str

end dex

agl per

cml aur

wil rea

cre emp

eloquence elo

<!-- image -->

| PHYSICAL   | [ ] 3   | sb | ml   |
|------------|---------|-----------|
| Awareness  | per·wil |           |
| Climbing   | agl·dex |           |
| Dancing    | agl·cre |           |
| Jumping    | agl·str |           |
| Riding     | emp·agl |           |
| Stealth    | agl·wil |           |
| Swimming   | agl·end |           |

·

·

·

·

·

·

]

<!-- image -->

per·dex wil·rea

str·end dex·agl

agl·per dex·per

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

## appearance

complexion hair

eyes height

weight handedness

## ESOTERICA

Spirit

]

<!-- image -->

coin per·rea

rea·wil rea·per

wil·rea

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

dex·cre

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

11

<!-- image -->

4

<!-- image -->

grace total left

10

piety max

left

14

<!-- image -->

sb | ml sb | ml

COMBAT

Archery

Initiative shock

Melee dodge

Throwing score

<!-- image -->

score

<!-- image -->

ml ml

sb | ml aur·wil

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

·

sb | ml

K

noting in

| d100   | randomfolk    |
|--------|---------------|
| 01-90  | Human         |
| 91-95  | Elder: Kúzhai |
| 96     | Elder: Ænarin |
| 97-99  | Elder: Sinái  |
| 00     | Elder: Sidhé  |

Unless otherwise explicitly stated, all character generation rules that pertain to humans also apply to Ænarin. Similarly, all rules pertaining to Sinai include Sidhe.

<!-- image -->

## nolóra: folk

<!-- image -->

Nolora's player is participating in a campaign where the GM has provided special Folk options. Players may select human as their character's folk or roll on a special table tailored to the Jerinala March in eastern Emelrene:

| d100   | bélveron folk   |
|--------|-----------------|
| 01-65  | Human           |
| 66-94  | Human(Émhlè)    |
| 95     | Ænarin (Émhlè)  |
| 96-98  | Elder: Sinái    |
| 99     | Elder: Sidhé    |
| 00     | Elder: Malák    |

Nolora's player decides to generate her folk randomly: a d100 roll of 74 results in Human (Émhlè) . The Emhle are the revered tribal people who tend the vast wilderness areas of Emelrene.

<!-- image -->

## Folk

As the first step of character generation, players determine the folk of their characters. While the world of Kethira consists mostly of humans, over a dozen others-called Elder Folk-live in disparate, isolated communities on all three continents.

<!-- image -->

## Select	human	or	roll	randomly	for	folk.

PCs may automatically be human, or players may roll d100 on the Random Folk table to see if they are non-human (sidebar). Although their prevalence depends greatly on the campaign's locale, Elder Folk PCs are usually limited to Kuzhai, Ænarin, Sinai, and Sidhe.

Human : the most common folk throughout Venarive are humans. Their cultures vary from those of Ivinia and Altor in the frozen north to those of Thonia and Anzeloria in the shrouded jungles of the south.

Kúzhai : the short and stout dwarves reside in four ancient cities across Venarive. Renowned for crafting and masonry, these long-lived folk prefer seclusion, tested only by a desire for trade and wealth.

Ænarin : rarely do elves mate with humans, but the resulting 'halfelf' retains much of the grace of the elven parent, while having an appearance indistinguishable from humans.

Sinái : of the several types of Ælrhin (elven folk), the Sinai of Evael on the isle of Hârn are the most well-known in all Kethira. While looking very much like humans, they are not subject to natural ageing.

Sidhé : the Sidhe are a rarer, older form of Sinai. Their grace and magical aptitude are likely unsurpassed on Kethira.

## Elder Folk

Elder Folk possess traits largely unique to themselves and often express superior physical and mental capabilities in comparison with humans. Each step of character generation will explicitly enumerate such pertinent game data. Also review their respective entries in the Folk section of Chapter 7: Bestiary (page 363).

## other elder folk

Several other folk scattered throughout Venarive might be suitable as player characters. Their appearance in a game should likely not be randomly generated but instead result from their allowance according to the GM's campaign.

Hwæthârwyn : a subtype of Ælrhin, the 'snow elves' of Altor reside in the northern forests and tundra; some believe them to be the Alfheim (light elves) of Ivinian lore. Generate a Hwætharwyn PC like a Sinai or Sidhe.

Malákta : they originally hail from the sibling-world of Yashain, but, on Kethira, reside at Malakrhyn, their fortress among the peaks of the Jerinala Mountains in eastern Emelrene. Malakta often serve as mercenaries, for which their chitinous body ideally suits them.

Nâdi : the secretive, canine-appearing folk reside in the mountains between Shorkyne and Trierzon, principally at the underground settlement of Mizuna. While the Nadi usually avoid other folk, a few itinerant merchants and odd adventuresome sorts are not unheard of.

E

Cofar ve

eing

1g.

ips ast

lent

r

led tes

ore til

rin s are

on only

g to hin

'e

## Age

CHARACTER 2

BIRTH

20-29 years old

Every player character's age is described according to one of three broadly defined groups : young, mature, or old. Young characters have better physical characteristics than the others, while the old have an advantage in experience. The mature have begun to show signs of ageing but also display some veteran skill.

<!-- image -->

Choose	or	roll	randomly	for	human	age	group.

Players must determine their character's age group before proceeding. If the character is human, the player may select one of the three groups or roll d100 on the Human Age Group sidebar table to determine it.

Young : with some cultural variance, most characters begin an apprenticeship in an occupation around the age of thirteen and finish it by twenty. More complicated tutelage in some professions might last until the mid-twenties. Young characters have finished such initial training and are either newly embarking on a journeyman or equivalent career or have done so just before the campaign's start. Being at their physical peak, the young comprise the bulk of military occupations.

Mature : characters of the mature group are likely masters (in a guilded occupation) or, otherwise, in the prime of their career. While their physique has begun to diminish, their experience usually compensates for this loss, still leaving them the leaders of their profession. For more academic pursuits, occupational excellence might not even begin until the mature years.

Old : while ageing has somewhat slowed and weakened them, old group characters have acquired quite a bit of experience. Most old soldiers have retired by this point (if they've survived); scholars have only just now reached their professional prime.

## Elder Folk Age

The ageing of each Elder Folk may require particular age group rules.

Ænarin : Half-elf PCs select or roll for age as for humans. While Ænarin age like humans throughout most of their lives, they extend the old group by 20 years, ultimately living a few decades beyond 100.

Malákta : although they generally age as for humans, all Malakta PCs are by default in the young group. Of the scant hundred known to exist on Kethira, only a few leaders are mature (and none are old).

Nâdi : select or roll for age as for humans.

Kúzhai : despite living 200-300 years, the Kuzhai usually send forth only seasoned kin to mingle in human affairs. Thus, all Kuzhai PCs belong to the mature group, with an actual age of around 75-125 years.

Sinái and Sidhé : while elven folk do not die of natural causes, all Ælrhin PCs begin the campaign in the young group, during the first or second century of their lives. They often ceremoniously embark on adventure when 144 years old, the 'age of maturity'.

21

| d100   | humanagegroup   | humanagegroup   |
|--------|-----------------|-----------------|
| 01-35  | Young           | 20-29 years old |
| 36-85  | Mature          | 30-49 years old |
| 86-00  | Old             | 50-69 years old |

Ænarin : select or roll as for humans.

Malakta : young. Nadi : select or roll as for humans. Kuzhai : mature (75-125 years old). Sinai &amp; Sidhe : young (100-299 years old).

## specific age

Players may select any numerical age within or close to the span of years given for each group. They might want to consider class, culture, and certain historical details of the campaign. For instance, a player sets the specific age of a young warrior at 28, making the soldier just old enough to have likely fought in a particular border skirmish seven years ago.

<!-- image -->

## nolóra: age

<!-- image -->

So far, Nolora's player knows her character belongs to the tribal people called the Emhle, famous for their survival skills and nature craft. She envisions someone with veteran experience but not too far beyond the peak of physical condition. She decides not to roll randomly and instead selects mature for Nolora. She holds off pinpointing an exact age until the end of character generation.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## birth month &amp; day

The Tuzyn Reckoning ( tr ), the most widely used calendar, divides the year into twelve lunar months, each 30 days long. The d12 result indicates the character's birth month:

| birthmonth   | birthmonth   | birthmonth   | birthmonth   |
|--------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|
| d12          | month        | d12          | month        |
| 1            | Núzyæl       | 7            | Azúra        |
| 2            | Peónu        | 8            | Halánè       |
| 3            | Kelén        | 9            | Savôr        |
| 4            | Nólus        | 10           | Ilvín        |
| 5            | Laránè       | 11           | Návek        |
| 6            | Ágrazhâr     | 12           | Morgát       |

The d30 result equals the date within the birth month. The sunsign derives from where this date falls in the given Birthday Ranges:

| birth sunsign          | birth sunsign   | birth sunsign   |
|------------------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| birthdayranges         | sunsign         | symbol          |
| 4 Núzyæl to 3 Peónu    | Ùlándus         | Tree            |
| 4 Peónu to 2 Kelén     | Arálius         | Wands           |
| 3 Kelén to 3 Nólus     | Fenéri          | Smith           |
| 4 Nólus to 4 Laránè    | Áhnù            | FireDragon      |
| 5 Laránè to 6 Ágrazhâr | Angberélius     | FlameSword      |
| 7 Ágrazhâr to 5 Azúra  | Nadái           | Salamander      |
| 6 Azúra to 4 Halánè    | Hîrin           | Eagle           |
| 5 Halánè to 3 Savôr    | Táræl           | Pentacle        |
| 4 Savôr to 2 Ilvín     | Tai             | Lantern         |
| 3 Ilvín to 2 Návek     | Skôrus          | Mixer           |
| 3 Návek to 1 Morgát    | Masâra          | Chalice         |
| 2 Morgát to 3 Núzyæl   | Ládo            | Galley          |

## cusp sunsign

The first two and last two days of each Sunsign are called a cusp. A character born on a cusp has traits of both the indicated Sunsign and its closest neighbour.

Cusp Sunsign Example : a d12 roll of 6 and a d30 roll of 5 indicate a cusp 5 Agrazhar birthday on the second-to-last day of the span. This is an Angberelius-Nadai cusp Sunsign.

## Sunsign

The alignment of the heavenly bodies at the moment of birth subtly informs the personality and skill use of folk. Astrologers of the Guild of Arcane Lore study a zodiac comprised of twelve constellations that mark the sun's position throughout the year. A Sunsign denotes the sun's location in the zodiac on a character's date of birth.

<!-- image -->

Roll	d12	&amp;	d30	for	Birthday,	which	determines	Sunsign.

The d12 result indicates the month of the character's birth in the sidebar Birth Month table. The d30 result equals the day of the character's birth. Find the birthday and month in the ranges of dates in the sidebar Birth Sunsign table. The character has the indicated Sunsign corresponding to the range; the symbol hints at its general nature (see page 278 for more details).

A character's Sunsign has three game applications-Sunsign Modifiers, Sunsign Traits, and Sunsign Development Points.

## Sunsign Modifiers

Sunsigns impart specific modifiers between -15 and +15 to each of the six mundane Skill Groups (Nature, Craft, Combat, Physical, Lore, and Social). The modifiers are called upon in several esoteric tests, such as spellcasting and Fate Rolls, but do not directly affect other skills.

Record the Sunsign Modifier that corresponds to each of the six mundane Skill Groups in its respective space to the right of the group name in the Skills section of the character sheet. Characters on a cusp receive the greater (more positive) modifier between both Sunsigns.

The Esoterica Skill Group has no Sunsign Modifier. Sunsign Modifiers do, in fact, affect spellcasting, but they are applied according to Pvâric convocation, rather than skill group (see page 198).

sunsign modifiers

| sunsign     |   nature earth fývria |   craft metal jmôrvi |   combat fire pèleáhn |   physical air lyáhvi |   lore aura sàvôrya |   social water odívshè |
|-------------|-----------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|------------------------|
| Ùlándus     |                   +15 |                   +5 |                    -5 |                   -15 |                  -5 |                     +5 |
| Arálius     |                   +10 |                  +10 |                     0 |                   -10 |                 -10 |                      0 |
| Fenéri      |                    +5 |                  +15 |                    +5 |                    -5 |                 -15 |                     -5 |
| Áhnù        |                     0 |                  +10 |                   +10 |                     0 |                 -10 |                    -10 |
| Angberélius |                    -5 |                   +5 |                   +15 |                    +5 |                  -5 |                    -15 |
| Nadái       |                   -10 |                    0 |                   +10 |                   +10 |                   0 |                    -10 |
| Hîrin       |                   -15 |                   -5 |                    +5 |                   +15 |                  +5 |                     -5 |
| Táræl       |                   -10 |                  -10 |                     0 |                   +10 |                 +10 |                      0 |
| Tai         |                    -5 |                  -15 |                    -5 |                    +5 |                 +15 |                     +5 |
| Skôrus      |                     0 |                  -10 |                   -10 |                     0 |                 +10 |                    +10 |
| Masâra      |                    +5 |                   -5 |                   -15 |                    -5 |                  +5 |                    +15 |
| Ládo        |                   +10 |                    0 |                   -10 |                   -10 |                   0 |                    +10 |

Sunsign Modifiers Example : a character with an Angberelius-Nadai cusp Sunsign has the following Sunsign Modifiers: Nature (-5), Craft (+5), Combat (+15), Physical (+10), Lore (0), and Social (-10).

N

## Sunsign Traits

Some aspects of personality stem from the nature of a character's Sunsign-these are called Sunsign Traits.

<!-- image -->

## Choose	or	roll	d6	for	each	Sunsign	Trait.

Players choose or roll d6 in the table below for one Sunsign trait according to their character's corresponding Sunsign. For characters on a cusp, choose or roll for two traits, one from each Sunsign.

| sunsigntraits   | sunsigntraits   | sunsigntraits   | sunsigntraits   |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| d6              | ùlándus         | arálius         | fenéri          |
| 1               | patient         | energetic       | hard-working    |
| 2               | confident       | optimistic      | productive      |
| 3               | calm            | enthusiastic    | restless        |
| 4               | aloof           | impulsive       | impatient       |
| 5               | inflexible      | demanding       | argumentative   |
| 6               | stubborn        | volatile        | obsessive       |
| d6              | áhnù            | angberélius     | nadái           |
| 1               | ambitious       | lively          | exuberant       |
| 2               | experimental    | impassioned     | imaginative     |
| 3               | idealistic      | persistent      | spontaneous     |
| 4               | perfectionist   | blunt           | unfocused       |
| 5               | critical        | aggressive      | evasive         |
| 6               | quick-tempered  | destructive     | wasteful        |
| d6              | hîrin           | táræl           | tai             |
| 1               | free-spirited   | dedicated       | philosophical   |
| 2               | instinctive     | contemplative   | truthful        |
| 3               | opportunistic   | indirect        | restrained      |
| 4               | rebellious      | enigmatic       | unemotional     |
| 5               | inscrutable     | indecisive      | inconsiderate   |
| 6               | merciless       | obedient        | naive           |
| d6              | skôrus          | masâra          | ládo            |
| 1               | personable      | affectionate    | composed        |
| 2               | curious         | tenacious       | tolerant        |
| 3               | inspiring       | emotional       | adaptive        |
| 4               | avid            | temperamental   | yielding        |
| 5               | intrusive       | resentful       | indulgent       |
| 6               | dictatorial     | overbearing     | nonchalant      |

Players roleplay their character's sunsign trait whenever and to whatever extent they wish. The above table simply offers the common ones that reflect the impact of astrology. Players may even alter or swap these if the result contradicts their perception of the character.

## Sunsign Development Points

Characters receive a number development points (DP) to enhance skills in the groups their Sunsign favours. Skill development takes place later during step 12 (page 45). For now, just note the pertinent groups and their respective DP amounts as given in the sidebar Sunsign Development Points table.

## sunsign dp

Characters receive Sunsign DP in the given skill groups according to their Sunsign. Those on a cusp receive the more favourable DP award of each Sunsign.

## sunsign development points

| sunsign     | skillgroupdp                   |
|-------------|--------------------------------|
| Ùlándus     | Nature 3 • Social 1 • Craft 1  |
| Arálius     | Nature 2 • Craft 2             |
| Fenéri      | Craft 3 • Nature 1 • Combat1   |
| Áhnù        | Craft 2 • Combat2              |
| Angberélius | Combat3 • Craft 1 • Physical 1 |
| Nadái       | Combat2 • Physical 2           |
| Hîrin       | Physical 3 • Combat1 • Lore 1  |
| Táræl       | Physical 2 • Lore 2            |
| Tai         | Lore 3 • Physical 1 • Social 1 |
| Skôrus      | Lore 2 • Social 2              |
| Masâra      | Social 3 • Lore 1 • Nature 1   |
| Ládo        | Social 2 • Nature 2            |

Sunsign Points Example 1 : a character with a Masara Sunsign receives three Social, one Lore, and one Nature DP.

Sunsign Points Example 2 : a character with an Angberelius-Nadai cusp Sunsign receives three Combat, two Physical, and one Craft DP .

## other personality traits

Players may describe their characters with other traits, as welllazy , foul-mouthed , pious , humorous . Consider that a few precise features might make a stronger impression than an extensive list.

<!-- image -->

## nolóra: sunsign

<!-- image -->

To determine Nolora's Sunsign, the player rolls 3 with the d12 and 8 with the d30. This generates an 8 Kelen birthday and a Feneri sunsign.

-  The Feneri sunsign gives Nolora the following Sunsign Modifiers : Nature (+5), Craft (+15), Combat (+5), Physical (-5), Lore (-15), and Social (-5).
-  Nolora's player rolls for a Sunsign Trait (Feneri): the d6 result is 6obsessive . She decides to switch this to the trait hardworking, still a reflection of the Feneri sunsign but imparting a calmer image to the player.
-  Lastly, Nolora's player records the Sunsign Development Points generated by the Feneri sunsign: Craft 3, Nature 1, Combat 1. These will be spent in a later step.

E

The C

## specific birthplace

Determining a character's exact Birthplace beyond the Region and Realm might require input or suggestions from the GM. Many published materials include random tables that allow a player to locate Birthplace down to the town, castle, or keep settlement, and sometimes even to a specific manor village.

<!-- image -->

## nolóra: birthplace

<!-- image -->

The GM informs the player that Nolora's Birthplace region is already determined: her Emhle tribal people reside in the Emelrene region in the realm called the Emhle Range . The Emelrene Region table provides the following additional information:

-  She comes from a Tribal society.
-  Her people worship a pantheon called the Cult of the Covenant (page 343).
-  Her native language is Emhlen , an old dialect similar to Emelan (see notes on page 417).

The GM points out that each Emhle tribe member hails from one of five specific tribal lodges in the area-called an ul in their language (or d'ul for the remote stone 'mountain lodge'):

| d100   | émhlèlodges    |   population |
|--------|----------------|--------------|
| 01-17  | Áhntîrith-d'ul |          100 |
| 18-29  | Caégmil-ul     |           70 |
| 30-49  | Kénsalyn-ul    |          120 |
| 50-73  | Mérenal-ul     |          140 |
| 74-00  | Pélangwæd-ul   |          160 |

The GM mentions Merenal-ul as a pivotal lodge in the ensuing campaign. Nolora's player is intrigued by this and selects Merenal-ul as her character's Birthplace instead of rolling for it.

<!-- image -->

The above population data and map are derived from AK-TRZN-D1-Neoma , a part of Keléstia Production's Atlas Keléstia series. While there are many more Emhle Lodges in the area, the GM has decided to focus on these five at the outset of the campaign.

## Birthplace

As discussed in Chapter 1 , Venarive consists of 22 distinct regions.

<!-- image -->

Determine	birthplace	region	and	realm.

The GM's own campaign and any published scenarios will greatly inform a PC's birthplace. The Nolóra: Birthplace sidebar to the left illustrates how this can be tailored for a specific locale.

## Region Table

Each geographical area is represented by its own Region table. Appendix I (page 415) collects all 22 tables for Venarive, including special Region tables for Elder Folk. For example, below is the Emelrene Region table used in the Belveron campaign.

For the moment, simply note the PC's region and realm of birth. The other information is referenced in later steps.

| emélrenèregion   | emélrenèregion   | emélrenèregion   | emélrenèregion   | emélrenèregion                |
|------------------|------------------|------------------|------------------|-------------------------------|
| d100             | realm            | society          | pantheon         | languages                     |
| 01-08            | Quándas Shire    | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan • Shôrka               |
| 09-25            | Álgram Shire     | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan                        |
| 26-36            | Fándàlon Shire   | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan                        |
| 37-54            | Âlwìna Shire     | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan                        |
| 55-67            | Malád Shire      | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan                        |
| 68-83            | BerémaShire      | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan • Pálithàner • Tríerzi |
| 84-93            | ÚlamàShire       | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan • Pálithàner           |
| 94               | Jerinála March   | Feudal           | W.Venârian       | Emélan                        |
| 95-00            | Émhlè Range      | Tribal           | Covenant         | Émhlèn                        |

A Region table imparts the following information.

d100 : a random roll that reflects the approximate demographics of the region, if needed. A GM could use this to generate an NPC's Birthplace.

Realm : a subdivision of the larger region. In the Emelrene Region, a realm is a shire or range within the Kingdom of Emelrene. Some Region tables incorporate other divisions. For instance, most realms in the Hârn Region are kingdoms unto themselves.

Society : the type of government or rule structure within the realm. Society informs a character's Parent Class and Occupation (steps 6 &amp; 7).

Pantheon : the name of the collection of gods generally worshipped in the realm, as detailed in the Divine Mysteries section (page 313). A pantheon consists of several distinct religions. In the above example, w. venârian refers to the Western Venarian Pantheon (page 321); covenant refers to the Cult of the Covenant Pantheon (page 343).

Languages : the first or only language listed is the Native Language of the realm. Subsequent languages listed, if any, are Regional Languages, more easily learned due to proximity or familiarity (page 48 sidebar).

Languages Example : a character born in Berema Shire in the Kingdom of Emelrene speaks Emelan as a native tongue. Both Palithaner and Trierzinearby languages of foreign realms just across the southern border-are Regional Languages, more readily learned during the character's past.